>> Speaker 1: Quick question.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yep.
>> Speaker 1: We're doing center.X
times the aspect because we're passing in
width divided by height of the aspect.
If we had done height divided by width
would we want to do
center.Y equals the aspect?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah
that sounds right.
We can just confirm that.
I always end up just doing
width divided by height, but
I think this would also work, you can do
center.y times aspect if you're passing
in height divided by width,
or if you're passing in,
let's say passing in
width divided by height.
You can do center.x times aspect or
you can do center.y divided by aspect.
And there's some subtle
differences in terms of which axis
it sort of aligns it to, stuff like that.
So, let's say, oops.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So now, no matter
if I'm doing center.x times aspect, and
aspect is width divided by height, no
matter if I resize my browser wide or not,
the circle is going to be the same size.
But if I was to do this
the other way around,
where center.y is divided by aspect.
Now, when I resize wider or not wide
it changes the side of the circle.
Sometimes that's actually useful if
you have an image that's always maybe
going up and down and growing in height.
You might want to use an aspect
ratio correction like this so
that your circle's always the same size.
Yeah.
And
just feel free to play
around these values.
Maybe it is kinda cool to have
a fall off that's a bit smoother.
You can also just try adding,
assign time to things.
[LAUGH] Sometimes,
it creates these cool images.
You can try like just
playing around with things.
So kind of one of the fun
things about shaders is,
you can just have a lot of fun
tweaking things for hours.
[LAUGH] But, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: So length,
smoothstep, and mix,
are those all shader functions or
are those GSLs?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah, so
it's basically the same, those two things.
In the context of what we're doing today,
we're working with shaders in WebGL.
Which is basically,
that means we're gonna,
all of our shaders are gonna be using
GLSL, which is a programming language.
So, it's a bit like JavaScript or
Java, it's just different language.
And the GLSL language,
it has these built in functions,
like sign, and length, and smoothstep.
And it has these built in data
types like float, and vec2.
And, so yeah, I mean,
it is both shaders and GLSL.
Because GLSL is the language, and
shader is sort of the concept,
I guess you could say,
if that makes sense.
Somebody was asking about how
do you apply fragment shaders or
shaders, pixel shaders to a 3D mesh.
This is a bit of an advanced topic that
we might not really get into today, but
I'll just show an example
of how simple it is.
There's a bit more complexity
involved than this because Three.js,
it handles shaders
a little bit differently.
It tries to make a few things easier for
you, but
as a result there's some
slight differences.
But in Three.js if you
use a shader material,
you can specify your own fragment
shader string, just looks like this.
And then you can change
the string to change the shade or
just like we are with
the full screen shader.
And then, there's sort of a whole another,
like a can of worms if you wanted
to get into doing individual
shading or textures, or
materials for each of these cubes.
So it's not really something we'll get
into because it involves passing down some
things like UV coordinates through
Three.js that we might not get into,
but basically once you're getting more
familiar with shaders and shader code,
doing this sort of thing in Three.js
is definitely gonna be much easier.
And there's a lots of tutorials.
Actually, if you're interested in that,
go to the repo and
at the very bottom there's a couple
links on GLSL and shaders.
And this one,
the second one here it's gonna cover
some of the stuff we're talking about
today in more depth, talking about
the data structures and stuff like that.
And it'll explain some of the syntax.
And then this one here,
the custom shaders in Three.js,
this is probably exactly what you want.
And both of these will go
through using shaders.
This one will go through like really
doing everything from scratch
using a few different tools
than what we're using today.
But a lot of the same concepts.
So it's just a link to
check out maybe later.